# Evaluation in Wired TSN with Sporadic Release Times

This document describes how to reproduce the results Section VI.B _Evaluation in Wired TSN with Sporadic Release Times_ of the paper _An (m, k)-firm Elevation Policy for Weakly Hard  Real-Time in Converged 5G-TSN Networks_.
For more context please refer to this document: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.19224732

We provide the results of all intermeduate steps so each step can be reproduced individually.

**Code**: The scripts used for the schedulability analysis are provided as part of this repository in the `emergency_eval` folder.

**Datasets**: The respective dataset of the (intermediate) results can be found [here](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.19188040).

### General Prerequisites

The working directory should always be the root folder of this repository.
Depending on your environment you may need to adjust the `PYTHONPATH` using the following command:

```shell
export PYTHONPATH="${PYTHONPATH}:emergency_eval:."
```

#### Python Packages

We recommend creating a conda environment with the provided `environment.yml` file:

```shell
conda env create -f environment.yml
```

Otherwise, Python 3.12 with the following dependencies is required:
- networkx=3.1
- pygraphviz=1.9 (conda-forge)
- lxml
- numpy>=1.26,<2.0
- matplotlib>=3.8,<4.0

Additional requirements for running the schedulers:
- docplex (ibmdecisionoptimization)

Additional requirements for running the worst case analysis:
- graph-tool (conda-forge)
- natsort
- pandas

## 1. Schedulability analysis

This section describes how to reproduce the schedulability analysis of the paper.

**Datasets**: All (intermediate) results of this section are contained in the `dsn26_schedulability.zip` file.

After following the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites), you can jump right into any of the following steps and start from there by using the provided intermediate results from datasets of the previous sections.

### Prerequisites

Before executing any code, please adjust the settings in the `emergency_eval/settings.py` file.
For the scheduling phase further repositories and programs are required, please refer the [Scheduling Prerequisites Section](#scheduling-prerequisites)

### Topology Generation

The topology is generated by executing the `gen_top.py` script.

```shell
python3 emergency_eval/gen_top.py
```

The generated topology file `topology.json` used in our evaluation is provided in the `t_3x4` folder of the dataset.

### Streamset generation

The streamsets are generated executing the `gen_streams_schedulabilitytest.py` script.

```shell
python3 emergency_eval/gen_streams_schedulabilitytest.py
```

The resulting streamsets used in our paper are provided in the `p_24` folder (inside of `t_3x4`) of the dataset with the following structure:
- Each `r_x` folder contains one isochronous streamset `streams.json` and multiple `et_y` subfolders.
- Each `et_y` subfolder contains one sporadic streamset `streams_et.json`, where `y` corresponds to the number of sporadic streams.

### Scheduling

#### Scheduling Prerequisites
For the schedule calculation the following projects are required:
1. Our approch:
   1. The CP-based scheduler for the primary schedule for isochronous streams: https://github.com/ustutt-ipvs-vs/primary_cp_schedule_MKFirm
   2. Our augmentation approach: https://github.com/ustutt-ipvs-vs/schedule_augmentation_MKFirm (needs to be build locally, see README.md)
2. Our implementation of E-TSN: https://github.com/ustutt-ipvs-vs/etsn_MKFirm

You either clone the repositories manually or execute the following script to clone all required repositories to the root directory of this repo.
After this, your filesystem tree should look like this:

```
workspace/
├─ eval_wired_sporadic_MKFirm (this repo)
│  ├─ dsn26_schedulability (generated in the previous steps or donwloaded from the datasets)
│  │  ├─ ...
├─ etsn_MKFirm
├─ primary_cp_schedule_MKFirm
├─ schedule_augmentation_MKFirm
```

Clone repositories
```shell
git clone https://github.com/ustutt-ipvs-vs/primary_cp_schedule_MKFirm ../primary_cp_schedule_MKFirm
git clone https://github.com/ustutt-ipvs-vs/schedule_augmentation_MKFirm ../schedule_augmentation_MKFirm
git clone https://github.com/ustutt-ipvs-vs/etsn_MKFirm ../etsn_MKFirm
```

And build the `schedule_augmentation_MKFirm` project. For more information, please refer to the respective README.md file.
```shell
cd ../schedule_augmentation_MKFirm
mkdir release
cd release
cmake ..
cmake --build .
cd ../../eval_wired_sporadic_MKFirm
```

Furthermore, an installation of the CPLEX optimized needs to be present.
We cannot ship CPLEX separately as part of these artifacts, as a license is required.
A free academic license including the installer can be found [here](https://academic.ibm.com/a2mt/email-auth#/).
After installation please adjust the `cplex_path` in the `settings.py` file to the location of the `cpotimizer` binary file on your system.

#### Scheduling Execution
To execute the scheduling phase, you can run the `emergency_eval/run_scheduler_schedulabilitytest.py`.
Please note that this requires significant system resources and time to execute.

```shell
python3 emergency_eval/run_scheduler_schedulabilitytest.py
```

In order to run the scheduler for only one streamset, you can use the `-f` argument, for example:

```shell
python3 emergency_eval/run_scheduler_schedulabilitytest.py -f dsn26_schedulability/t_3x4/p_24/r_0/et_1
```

#### Scheduling results
The results of the scheduler can be found in the respective folder under files with this `prefix`:
1. Our approach:
   1. CP-based primary schedule: `cp_out`
   2. Augmented schedule: `libtsndgm_out`
2. E-TSN: `etsn_out`

The following files are provided:
- `[prefix].json`: The schedule (If this file is missing, the scheduler did not complete successfully).
- `[prefix].log`: The output log of the scheduler.
- `[prefix]_meta.json`: Further metadata (such as the runtime and exit code).

The results of all schedulers on our system are available in the dataset.

### Results

Using the `eval_schedulability.py` script, the results used in the paper are calculated.
It yields two matplotlib figures (which are merged to Fig 8a in the paper)
and generates a `results_24.json` file with the raw numbers shown in the figure.

```shell
python3 emergency_eval/eval_schedulability.py
```

You can either use this script after running the schedulers for all streamsets on your system.
Alternatively, when the scheduling results from our systems are available in the `dsn26_schedulability` folder,
this script will yield the exact same results as shown in the paper.

## 2. Worst-Case Analysis (Simulation)

In this section, we describe how the worst-case analysis can be reproduced.

The streamset with 24 isochronous and 24 sporadic streams used for the simulation-based worst-case analysis is provided
in folder `p_24/r_9/et_24` of the schedulability analysis dataset.

**Datasets**: The (intermediate) results of this section are contained in the `dsn26_worstcase.zip` file.

The worst case analysis is performed using OMNeT++ simulations.
Due to the number of runs performed, reproducing the exact results of the paper requires significant system resources and time.
Thus, we provide the following options:
1. A Dockerfile with a single run command (see [this](#docker) section), that:
   - Contains all required prerequisites
   - Performs a few short runs of the simulation
   - Evaluates the results of these few runs
2. A detailed description listing all requirements and steps to perform the full simulation and evaluation.
   (See section [Manual Execution](#manual-execution)

In any case, the scheduling results of the previous section for `dsn26_schedulability/t_3x4/p_24/r_9/et_24` need to be available
(either by self executing or from the provided datasets)

### Docker

By default, the docker environment is set up to only perform 2 simulation runs of 1s each (instead of 100 runs with 10s each as used in the paper).
These settings can also be adjusted using the `emergency_eval/settings_docker.py` file.

To build and run the docker container and print the result, please execute the following two commands:

```shell
docker build --progress=plain -t eval_wired_sporadic_mkfirm .
docker run --rm -v $(pwd)/dsn26_schedulability:/usr/src/workspace/eval_wired_sporadic_MKFirm/dsn26_schedulability -v $(pwd)/dsn26_worstcase_docker:/usr/src/workspace/eval_wired_sporadic_MKFirm/dsn26_worstcase eval_wired_sporadic_mkfirm
```

After the execution this will print the results to the console.
For an interpretation of this please refer to the [Evaluation](#evaluation) section and the paper.

### Manual Execution
This section describes how to reproduce the exact results as presented in our paper.
This requires significant time and system resources!

In case you've downloaded the simulation results (`dsn26_worstcase.zip` from the dataset),
you can directly jump to the [Evaluation](#evaluation) section and perform the evaluation script
based on the provided `results.pkl` file.

#### Prerequisites

In order to execute the simulations of this section, a working installation of OMNeT++ and INET is required. 
The versions used for the simulation in this paper are:
- OMNeT++: v6.1.0
- INET: v4.5.4

Futhermore, the scheduling results of the previous section for `t_3x4/p_24/r_9/et_24` need to be available.

Please make sure the `opp_run` executable of OMNeT++ is available in the `PATH` environment variable.

Please also make sure to adjust the other parameters in the `settings.py` file.

#### Simulation Generation and Execution
Based on the provided topology and streamset file of the above scenario, an OMNeT++ simulation is generated and then executed using the `simulate_single_scenario_long.py` file.

```shell
python3 emergency_eval/simulate_single_scenario_long.py
```

The generated simulation files (`omnetpp.ini` and `Scenario.ned`) are contained in the `libtsndgm` for our approach and the `etsn` folder for E-TSN.
Furthermore, when generating the simulation scenario an additional `streams_meta.json` file is provided which is used in the final evaluation step.

For the paper we evaluated 100 simulation runs each with a duration of 10 seconds in simulation time (on our system 1 simulated second took approximately 100 real seconds).
Thus, the simulation can take a significant amount of time and system resources to execute.
The number of runs and the duration of each run can be adjusted in the `settings.py` file.

#### Data Extraction From the Simulation Results

Due to the size of the simulation results (`.vec` and `.sca` files), we cannot publish them in the raw format.
However, the provided `eval_single_long.py` script extracts the important information and stores it in the `results.pkl` file.
This file is provided as part of the dataset.

To extract the simulation results from your own simulation runs, you can execute the following command:

```shell
python3 emergency_eval/eval_single_long.py
```

#### Evaluation
When executing the `eval_single_long.py` script and the `results.pkl` file is present, it reads the data from this file instead of the raw simulation results.

```shell
python3 emergency_eval/eval_single_long.py
```

The script then performs the following actions:
1. Merge the runs of each approach (will print some statistics) => merged file will be saved to `results_merged.pkl` and used if the script is executed again.
2. Perform a sanity check to ensure all deadlines are met with a log per stream containing the following information (green output means sanity check passed):
   - Total number of frames received
   - Number of frames being delayed by a sporadic stream
   - Number of frames arriving outside of the specification (too early or too late). For a correct schedule this is always 0. If any of the numbers should be non-zero, the log is printed in another color besides green.
3. Calculate and print the worst-case delay for all isochronous streams and sporadic streams and the worst case jitter for all isochronous streams.
