# Evaluation in Wired TSN with Sporadic Release Times

This document describes how to reproduce the results Section VI.B _Evaluation in Wired TSN with Sporadic Release Times_ of the paper.

We provide the results of all intermeduate steps so each step can be reproduced individually.

**Code**: The scripts used for the schedulability analysis are provided as part of this repository in the `emergency_eval` folder.

**Datasets**: The respective dataset of the (intermediate) results can be found [here](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.19188040).

## 1. Schedulability analysis

This section describes how to reproduce the schedulability analysis of the paper.

**Datasets**: All (intermediate) results of this section are contained in the `dsn26_schedulability.zip` file.

### Prerequisites

Before executing any code, please adjust the settings in the `settings.py` file.

In order to execute the scheduling step, further repositories need to be cloned (refer to the [Scheduling](#scheduling) section).
Furthermore, an installation of the cplex optimized needs to be present.
We cannot ship CPLEX separately as part of these artifacts, as a license is required.
A free academic license including the installer can be found [here](https://academic.ibm.com/a2mt/email-auth#/).
After installation plese adjust the `cplex_path` in the `settings.py` file to the location of the `cpotimizer` binary file on your system.

### Topology Generation

The topology is generated by executing the `gen_top.py` script.

The generated topology file `topology.json` used in our evaluation is provided in the root folder of the dataset.

### Streamset generation

The streamsets are generated executing the `gen_streams.py` script.

The resulting streamsets used in our paper are provided in the `p_24` folder of the dataset with the following structure:
- Each `r_x` folder contains one isochronous streamset `streams.json` and multiple `et_y` subfolders.
- Each `et_y` subfolder contains one sporadic streamset `streams_et.json`, where `y` corresponds to the number of sporadic streams.

### Scheduling

For the schedule calculation the following projects are required:
1. Our approch:
   1. The CP-based scheduler for the primary schedule for isochronous streams **TODO: Name? and folder name**
   2. Our augmentation approach **TODO: Name? and folder name**
2. Our implementation of E-TSN **TODO: folder name**

To execute the scheduling phase, the paths in the `settings.py` file needs to be to the location of the repositories on your system.

To execute the scheduling phase, you can run the `run_scheduler_schedulabilitytest.py`.
Please note that this requires significant system resources and time to execute.

In order to run the scheduler for only one streamset, you can for example execute `run_scheduler_schedulabilitytest.py -r [path]/p_24/r_0`

The results of the scheduler on our systems can be found in the respective folder under files with this `prefix`:
1. Our approach:
   1. CP-based primary schedule: `cp_out`
   2. Augmented schedule: `libtsndgm_out`
2. E-TSN: `etsn_out`

The following files are provided:
- `[prefix].json`: The schedule (If this file is missing, the scheduler did not complete successfully).
- `[prefix].log`: The output log of the scheduler.
- `[prefix]_meta.json`: Further metadata (such as the runtime and exit code).

### Results

Using the `eval_schedulability.py` script, the results used in the paper are calculated.
It yields two matplotlib figures (which are merged to Fig 8a in the paper) and generates a `results_24.json` file with
the raw numbers shown in the figure.

## 2. Worst-Case Analysis (Simulation)

In this section, we describe how the worst-case analysis can be reproduced.

The streamset with 24 isochronous and 24 sporadic streams used for the simulation-based worst-case analysis is provided
in folder `p_24/r_9/et_24` of the schedulability analysis dataset.

**Datasets**: All (intermediate) results of this section are contained in the `dsn26_worstcase.zip` file.


### Prerequisites

In order to execute the simulations of this section, a working installation of OMNeT++ and INET is required. 
The versions used for the simulation in this paper are:
- OMNeT++: v6.1.0
- INET: v4.5.4

Futhermore, the scheduling results of the previous section for `p_24/r_9/et_24` need to be available.

Please make sure the `opp_run` executable of OMNeT++ is available in the PATH.

Please also make sure to adjust the other parameters in the `settings.py` file.

### Simulation Generation and Execution
Based on the provided topology and streamset file of the above scenario, an OMNeT++ simulation is generated and then executed using the `simulate_single_scenario_long.py` file.
The generated simulation files (`omnetpp.ini` and `Scenario.ned`) are contained in the `libtsndgm` for our approach and the `etsn` folder for E-TSN.
Futhermore, when generating the simulation scenario an additional `streams_meta.json` file is provided which is used in the final evaluation step.

For the paper we evaluated 100 simulation runs each with a duration of 10 seconds in simulation time (on our system 1 simulated second took approximately 100 real seconds).
Thus, the simulation can take a significant amount of time and system resources to execute.
The number of runs and the duration of each run can be adjusted in the `settings.py` file.

### Data Extraction From the Simulation Results

Due to the size of the simulation results (`.vec` and `.sca` files), we cannot publish them in the raw format.
However, the provided `single_scenario_long.py` script extracts the important information and stores it in the `results_merged.pkl` file.
This file is provided as part of the dataset.

### Evaluation
**TOOD: There is also a `results.pkl` but i don't think we need it**

When executing the `single_scenario_long.py` script and the `results.pkl` file is present, it reads the data from this file instead of the raw simulation results.
Based on this data, the metrics provided in the paper are calculated.

**TODO: I need to clean up this file, there is a lot of functionality that is not used in the paper at all**
